release: add 1.6.0 release note (#7826)
longhorn/longhorn: CHANGELOG/CHANGELOG-1.6.0.md

- [Talos Support](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/3161) 
- [OKD (OpenShit Origin) Support](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/1831)

We eagerly anticipate receiving more feedback on the preferred platforms for running Longhorn and are committed to continued investment in making Longhorn an adaptive storage solution.

### Space Efficiency

In previous versions, users were unable to control or predict the number or size of volume snapshots. Starting from Longhorn v1.6.0, users can configure global settings or granular settings to control snapshots either globally or for each volume individually. This feature aids in space management, providing better space estimation.

- [Snapshot Space Management](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6563)

### GitOps Friendly

Longhorn has been validated with popular GitOps solutions, including [Flux](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6343), [ArgoCD](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6434) and [Fleet](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6935). In subsequent versions, we will continue enhancing Longhorn as a GitOps-aware storage solution.

### Data Protection

> Longhorn now supports Block Volume Encryption](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/4883), enabling users to encrypt volumes, particularly beneficial in virtualization use cases such as Harvester or KubeVirt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Longhorn now supports [Block Volume Encryption](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/4883), enabling users to encrypt volumes, particularly beneficial in virtualization use cases such as Harvester or KubeVirt.
```

### Node Maintenance

In addition to the existing [Node Drain Policies](https://longhorn.io/docs/1.6.0/maintenance/maintenance/#node-drain-policy-recommendations), two new policies, *__Block For Eviction__* and __*Block For Eviction If Contains Last Replica*__ , have been introduced to enhance the situation when draining a node. In scenarios where healthy replicas exist, they will be automatically evicted and relocated to other nodes before the node is cordoned. These policies strengthen data protection, but there will be additional costs for data movement. It is recommended not to leave this policy enabled under normal use and only enable it during planned maintenance. Please refer to the detailed documentation to understand the pros and cons.

### Backup Image Management

Longhorn now supports [Backing Image Backup and Restore](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/4165), facilitating users in managing backing images across clusters, particularly beneficial in virtualization use cases such as Harvester or KubeVirt.

## Installation

> > **Please ensure your Kubernetes cluster is at least v1.21 before installing Longhorn v1.6.0.**
> 
> Longhorn supports three installation ways including Rancher App Marketplace, Kubectl, and Helm. Follow the installation instructions [here](https://longhorn.io/docs/1.6.0/deploy/install/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Ensure that your cluster is running Kubernetes v1.21 or later before installing Longhorn v1.6.0.**

You can install Longhorn using a variety of tools, including Rancher, Kubectl, and Helm. For more information about installation methods and requirements, see [Quick Installation](https://longhorn.io/docs/1.6.0/deploy/install/) in the Longhorn documentation.
```

## Upgrade

> > **Please ensure your Kubernetes cluster is at least v1.21 before upgrading to Longhorn v1.6.0 from v1.5.x. Only support upgrading from 1.5.x.**
> 
> Follow the upgrade instructions [here](https://longhorn.io/docs/1.6.0/deploy/upgrade/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Ensure that your cluster is running Kubernetes v1.21 or later before upgrading from Longhorn v1.5.x to v1.6.0.**

Longhorn only allows upgrades from supported versions. For more information about upgrade paths and procedures, see [Upgrade](https://longhorn.io/docs/1.6.0/deploy/upgrade/) in the Longhorn documentation.
```

## Deprecation & Incompatibilities

> Please check the [important notes](https://longhorn.io/docs/1.6.0/deploy/important-notes/) to know more about deprecated, removed, incompatible features and important changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For information about important changes, including feature incompatibility, deprecation, and removal, see [Important Notes](https://longhorn.io/docs/1.6.0/deploy/important-notes/) in the Longhorn documentation.
```

> ## Follow-Up Known Issues
> 
> Please follow up on [here](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/wiki/Release-Known-Issues) about any outstanding issues found after this release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Post-Release Known Issues

For information about issues identified after this release, see [Release-Known-Issues](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/wiki/Release-Known-Issues).
```

- [DOC] Explanation of storage class parameters [4776](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/4776) - @james-munson @roger-ryao
- [DOC] Create a KB for high space consumption issue guideline [6592](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6592) - @shuo-wu
- [DOC] Create a KB for incorrect replica expansion [6391](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6391) - @ejweber
- [DOC] `deploy/longhorn.yaml` out of date - causes all longhorn-manager instances to crash-loop [6428](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6428) - @c3y1huang
- [REFACTORING] Move adding finalizer of resources to mutation webhooks as volume/engine/replica  [4872](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/4872) - @ejweber @chriscchien
- [TASK]  Update or remove out-of-date cleanup script [6316](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6316) - @james-munson
- [DOC] v1.5.0 additional outgoing firewall ports need to be opened 9501 9502 9503 [6317](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/6317) - @ChanYiLin @chriscchien
- [TASK] Check and update the networking doc & example YAMLs [5651](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/5651) - @yangchiu @shuo-wu

> ## Contributors
> - @Anarkis
> - @ArthurVardevanyan
> - @ChanYiLin
> - @DamiaSan
> - @FrankYang0529
> - @PhanLe1010
> - @Vicente-Cheng
> - @antoninferrand
> - @c3y1huang
> - @chriscchien
> - @derekbit
> - @ejweber
> - @innobead
> - @james-munson
> - @m-ildefons
> - @mantissahz
> - @nitendra-suse
> - @roger-ryao
> - @scures
> - @sfackler
> - @shuo-wu
> - @smallteeths
> - @votdev
> - @weizhe0422
> - @yangchiu
> - @yardenshoham

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Contributors
- @Anarkis
- @ArthurVardevanyan
- @ChanYiLin
- @DamiaSan
- @FrankYang0529
- @PhanLe1010
- @Vicente-Cheng
- @antoninferrand
- @c3y1huang
- @chriscchien
- @derekbit
- @ejweber
- @innobead
- @james-munson
- @jillian-maroket 
- @m-ildefons
- @mantissahz
- @nitendra-suse
- @roger-ryao
- @scures
- @sfackler
- @shuo-wu
- @smallteeths
- @votdev
- @weizhe0422
- @yangchiu
- @yardenshoham
```

Reviewer 2: I added myself.
